---
layout: post
title: Galaxy Bulge Regions with SDSS
description: Emerging Scholars Program
---

In Spring of 2024, I worked with Dr. Ari Maller at CUNY New York City College of Technology as part of their Emerging Scholars Program, which provides funding for a semester-long reserach project. This project was my first time using Python since a class in high school, and it introduced me to data analysis and plotting techniques with Python. The skills I gained from this project laid the foundation for what I was able to accomplish in other projects. 

The research itself focused on analyzing a subset of around one million galaxies with the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, specifically focusing on the statistical relationships between the galaxy bulge region and other galaxy properties. I presented this work at the 40th Semi-Annual Dr. Janet Liou-Mark Honors & Undergraduate Research Poster Presentation on 5.9.2024. ([poster link](https://academicworks.cuny.edu/ny_pubs/1137/)). Abstract: Nearly all of the ordinary matter in the universe is located in galaxies, which are made up stars, gas, dust, and black holes, and range in size from a few thousand to a few hundred thousand light years across. Galaxies come in different shapes, but many of them are spiral shaped, and some of those have a central bulge region that is distinct from the rest of the galactic disk. This project used a large data set of galaxies that had their bulge and disk components separated to see what correlations those fractions of each galaxy have with other galaxy properties, including total stellar mass and redshift. Binned statistics techniques were used to reduce the noise in the data. The relationships between the bulge radius and total mass and the disk radius and total mass showed strong linear correlations. The relationship between bulge to total ratio and total mass showed that the bulge fraction increases with mass dramatically at first and then declines slowly with mass, for both the mass ratio and the luminosity ratio. This information can be used to constrain galaxy formation models to learn more about how the universe came to be as it is today.
