---
layout: post
title: Cosmic Filaments with LSST
description: Work with the Gotham Web Lab
---

Since May 2024, I have been a research assistant to Dr. Charlotte Welker (CUNY faculty) and Dr. Charlotte Olsen (CUNY post-doc) in the Gotham Web Lab. The group focuses on analyzing the impact of cosmic filaments on galaxies, especially dwarf galaxies and their formation histories. Most of the group works with simulations, but I have been using simulated data for the ongoing Legacy Survey of Space and Time from the Rubin Observatory. I focus on using this data to develop and improve identification methods of 2D cosmic filaments, taking into account the uncertainties of photometric redshifts. The goal is to publish my own paper on this by early 2026.

My code for this project is split between two repositories, [one for work on the Rubin Science Platform](https://github.com/sarahedraves/LSST_Data) and [one for work on the Dark Energy Science Collaboration NERSC Jupyter Labs instance](https://github.com/sarahedraves/nersc-code).

I have presented on this work twice with similar posters, at the 245th meeting of the American Astronomical Society in National Harbor,
Maryland on 1.14.2025 ([poster link](https://aas245-aas.ipostersessions.com/Default.aspx?s=3B-03-9F-6A-6E-75-01-97-E0-FC-B1-F5-ED-BF-AB-40)) and at the 41st Semi-Annual Dr. Janet Liou-Mark Honors & Undergraduate Research Poster
Presentation at CUNY New York City College of Technology on 12.4.2024 ([poster link](https://academicworks.cuny.edu/ny_pubs/1222/)). Abstract for the AAS presentation: While the largest structures in the universe that make up the cosmic web are known to influence galaxy formation for massive galaxies, the details of which processes and conditions drive the growth of low mass galaxies remain unclear. Dwarf galaxies are particularly sensitive to the environment around them and are thus an ideal way to trace smaller filaments and then investigate how exactly they impact galactic evolution. To accomplish this, we use simulated observations for the upcoming Legacy Survey of Space and Time (LSST) conducted by the Rubin Observatory, which is expected to discover 20 billion new galaxies with excellent completeness for dwarfs in the nearby universe. We use this data to identify and select low mass galaxies and infer their properties, such as position, redshift stellar mass, and star formation rate. We bin these galaxies by redshift and use DisPerSE, a topological algorithm which we use recursively in a tomographic way, to reconstruct two-dimensional filaments. We then investigate how the properties of the dwarf galaxies are correlated with their proximity to a filament. This pipeline will be applied to upcoming LSST data, where the unprecedented wealth of data promises to unlock deep insights into the details of how the cosmic web drives galaxy evolution.
